---
title: Spheres and geometry
tags: geometry spherical-geometry
---

When we look at a highway, we often think of it as a straight line. Of course it is not straight—it curves with the earth. Still, if we say that the straight lines on the surface of the earth are the <em>great circles</em>, then we can begin to do geometry.<!--more-->

<p>In this session we used a fun toy called a Lénárt Sphere, which is a sphere you can draw on with a round ruler. We used it to discuss a number of questions, including:</p>
<ul>
<li>A bear leaves home, walks 200 miles south, then 200 miles west, then walks north. To her surprise, she finds that she is back home again. Where’s the bear’s house?</li>
<li>What is a straight line on the sphere? What isn’t?</li>
<li>How many "great circles" can you find between a pair of points on the sphere?</li>
<li>Suppose we call the great circles on a sphere "lines". What are some similarities and differences between these lines and the lines we typically use in Euclidean Geometry? Some properties to think about:
<ul>
<li>parallel</li>
<li>perpendicular</li>
<li>number of intersections</li>
<li>shortest distance</li>
<li>lengths</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Is it possible to have a two-sided polygon on a sphere? Why or why not?</li>
<li>What is a triangle on a sphere? Draw one.</li>
<li>Is it possible to draw a square on a sphere? Why or Why Not?</li>
<li>What shapes can be formed by three great circles on a sphere?</li>
<li>Measure the angles of triangles on a sphere. What relationship(s) can you see among the angles and the areas of the triangles?</li>
<li>The surface area of a sphere is "4 pi r squared". Use this to find the area of
<ul>
<li>a region between two great circles (biangle, lune)</li>
<li>a region between three (triangle)</li>
<li>(Look for patterns in your calculations.)</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Find a formula for the area of a triangle on a sphere by thinking about the 6 "lunes" created by three intersecting lines?</li>
</ul>

## Handouts from the session

{% include handouts.html %}
